## *Conceptual Overview for Student Data Analysts*

This conceptual overview is targeted towards early data analysts who are primarily new at R who want to learn the basics of the language by working with the My Favorite Albums data. These documents will assume you have RStudio already downloaded and have some prior knowledge using R. Topics for this audience will include descriptions of how to run, publish, and enter new data in this software. R, the software used for this data, can filter large datasets to visualize data and run interactive web applications much like we see in My Favorite Albums. R has many other functions we do not see examples of in My Favorite Albums, like running complex statistical models. 

Some important definitions to consider for student data analysts to interact with this software include R, RStudio, GitHub, repository, and .csv files. R is an open-source programming language for statistical computing, data analysis, and graphics. R uses extensive packages for tasks like data cleaning, visualization, and complex modeling, which has been utilized by the author of My Favorite Albums to create this piece of software. RStudio is an environment that allows for coding using R to complete tasks such as data analysis, visualization, and statistical computing with features like a code editor, console, plot viewer, and workspace management. RStudio is used to create code, which you will utilize to open datasets from this project. GitHub is a cloud-based platform that allows other developers to store and share coding projects. To publish data from My Favorite Albums, you will need to utilize Github by posting code in a repository. A repository is a feature of GitHub that allows developers to store code, files, and each file's revision history. These repositories can either be public or private and can have more than one collaborator. A .csv file is a text file used to store tabular data like spreadsheets or databases where each line in the file represents a data row, and each value within that row is separated by a comma, making it easy to use across multiple applications. In projects such as My Favorite Albums, .csv files are frequently used. R will be used in RStudio (where .csv files are loaded from your computer) and published using GitHub where data/code is stored in the repository. 

The user interface is a Shiny interface, a user-facing component of a web application built using R. The backend data is made up of a .csv file that comprises the data on albums, artist, and years of music. To interact with the code and user interface, student data analysts will need to be using the R programming language, RStudio, GitHub, and [shinyapps.io](http://shinyapps.io). To import new data unique to the user, the student data analyst will need to create a new .csv file with similar features of the original .csv file used in My Favorite Albums. 