## *Conceptual Overview for Music Enthusiasts*

This conceptual overview for any fan of music, where any level of programming experience is helpful\! As long as you can use a web page, you can use My Favorite Albums. Through this document, you will learn ways to filter, discover, and compare albums, artists, and years of music. This software allows for you to interact with real data the author has created to compare and visualize data related to music. Although this is a great tool to compare music data, this document will not cover explanations of R the programming language or how the backend coding works. 

Some important definitions to consider for music enthusiasts to interact with this software include user interface, dropdown menu, slider, and software developer. A user interface is the point of communication between a person and a machine, or the visualization a viewer sees instead of code/technical software. In this application, you will be able to use a dropdown menu to actively explore information about the author's favorite music\! A dropdown menu is a user interface element that displays a list of hidden choices that appear when a user clicks a button, which you can utilize to select specific years and artists to view related data. A slider is a dynamic user interface element that allows you to slide to choose one or more options on a horizontal line, making it possible to filter for albums you would like to see displayed. The software developer, sometimes referred to as a software engineer, is the person responsible for designing, troubleshooting, and testing software applications. In this case, the software developer also created the data containing all information about their favorite albums and artists. The software developer has created a user interface that includes features such as a dropdown menu and slider in order for you to interact and explore this data related to their favorite music in an engaging way\!